
PLEASE USE THE SCANTRON SHEET FOR SECTION #1.
WRITE ANSWERS FOR SECTION #2, 3, & 4  DIRECTLY ON THE QUIZ BOOKLET.

TIME: 60 minutes
Closed books, no cell phones or electronic devices, all bags on floor.
The test should be on pages 3-x. Pages 2 & x are intentionally blank.

Grading:
50 points / 2 = 25% of final grade
SECTION #1	30 Multiple Choice Questions 			1 pt each
SECTION #2	10 Short Answer Questions			1 pt each
SECTION #3 	1 Long answer Question (choice)		10 points
SECTION #4	5 Bonus Questions				5 pts total

 
 

SECTION 1: Questions 1-30	MULTIPLE CHOICE (1 point each)		TOTAL: 30 MARKS
1)	Globalization, in terms of new media, can be defined as:

A.	The process by which markets, technologies, cultures, and businesses are homogenizing and becoming accessible everywhere on the planet.
B.	The spread of American brands and companies to new countries, opening retail locations that drive out local businesses and industries.
C.	The growth of monopoly capitalism in the era of late modernity.
D.	The outsourcing of jobs and production to countries with low wages and fewer environmental and safety regulations.

2)	Which one of the following is a characteristic of digital media?

A.	Manipulable
B.	Networkable
C.	Dense
D.	Confidential
E.	Impartial
 
3)	What best describes the concept of conversion?

A.	Having one phone that does everything
B.	The use of various modes of content on one device
C.	All your old media technologies get rolled into one
D.	When gamers get together to play video games?

4)	What are the three “C” s of new methodology?

A.	Computing, Content, and Convergence
B.	Communications, Computing, and Content
C.	Cable TV, CD-ROMs, and Computers
D.	Convergence, Communications, and Content


5)	From the text by Flew and Smith, what was the key thing that separated new media from previous media forms?

A.	Electricity
B.	Computer
C.	Interaction
D.	Network




6)	As described in class, what does remediation mean?

A.	Describing new media using the language of old media
B.	Reusing old content in new formats, like upgrading your albums to CDs
C.	Using the same content as a brand across multiple platforms
D.	Relaunching old content in every few years to maintain the copyright


7)	When the internet growth was at its peak in the years from 1996-2000, what was the annual rate of growth?

A.	178%
B.	260%
C.	472%
D.	1704%
E.	None of the above

8)	What is the definition of the digital divide?

A.	Gap in access between have and have not
B.	Gap between the innovators and the early adopters
C.	The divide between Apple and Android users.
D.	Gap between the 1% and everyone else.

9)	In an image of a long tail distribution model. Which company below leverages the long tail for their retail operations?

A.	Walmart
B.	Disney
C.	Amazon
D.	Facebook

10)	An interface is defined as “The way users experience software or hardware”. Based on this, which of the following devices is NOT a computer interface?

A.	Mouse
B.	Joystick
C.	Display
D.	Printer
E.	None of the above; they are all interfaces.

11)	The Web 2.0 practice of “tagging” data was identified as a method of _________.

A.	Homophily
B.	Metadata
C.	Folksonomy
D.	Convergence

12)	Harold Innis is the Canadian Communications scholar who talked about time-biased and space-biased media. New media exhibits which bias?
 
A.	Time
B.	Space
C.	Both
D.	Neither

13)	Comparing Morse code and the early telegraph with the modern “Web 2.0” internet, which key feature listed below was missing from the “Victorian Internet”?

A.	Encoding of data
B.	Compression
C.	Interactivity
D.	Storage

14)	Metcalfe's Law describes the power of the growth of a network.  What is the key characteristic that determines if a device works for the purposes of Metcalfe’s Law?

A.	Convergence
B.	Compatibility
C.	Connectivity
D.	Computing Power

15)	Network neutrality treats data with _________ in order to limit advantages and allow growth.

A.	Connectivity
B.	Common carriage
C.	Preference
D.	Impartiality



16)	What famous feud was shown as an example of Social Shaping of Technology during a lecture:

A.	QWERTY vs Dvorak
B.	Emacs vs vi
C.	VHS vs Beta
D.	Windows vs Mac


17)	In the diffusion model, where is Facebook in the current period of adoption? (And what would that suggest about there future growth prospects?)

A.	A
B.	B
C.	C
D.	D





18)	What are the two things political economy focuses on when analyzing media:

A.	Ownership structures and money flows
B.	Politics and economics
C.	Who has the money, and who benefits from it most.
D.	Production and distribution networks of new media.

19)	In the text, Andrew Feenberg describes one element of the political economy approach to technology as the technical code. This code often obscures the _______ of the system.

A.	Constraints
B.	Power
C.	Money flows
D.	Development

20)	From the discussion in class of Vincent Mosco’s concept of the digital sublime from the text, what phrase below best describes how that process of sublimation appears in the real world?

A.	The internet has disappeared.
B.	Wireless connectivity appears from nowhere.
C.	The internet has become transcendent.
D.	The internet increases in power when it can reliably assumed to be always available. 

21)	What were the four stages in Stuart Hall’s Encoding/Decoding model of communication?

A.	Sender, Channel, Noise, Receiver
B.	Production, Circulation, Use, Recirculation
C.	Sender, Receiver, Channel, Feedback, 
D.	Producer, Distributor, User, Consumer

22)	Which of the following best fits the definition of a social network?

A.	an online or app-based website that makes you create a profile
B.	Individuals or organizations that socialize in communities
C.	face to face or electronic relations between people for formal and informal purposes
D.	a community of like-minded individuals that gathers together on the internet

23)	How does Social Network Analysis connect back to political economy approaches to new media?

A.	New media companies like Google, Facebook, and Twitter have an undue influence on political discourse
B.	It treats network capital as a resource like financial capital
C.	New media companies require a high capital expenditure to start up.
D.	There is so much money to be made in new media. So. Much. Money.

24)	What is the key element in Social Network Analysis?

A.	Edge
B.	Dyad
C.	Actor
D.	Clique

25)	An edge or an arc in a Social Network graph represents a:

A.	Person
B.	Non-human actor
C.	Mutual interests
D.	Relationship

26)	Collaboration Information Models are a form of peer production. What was one CIM that was discussed in class?

A.	Netflix
B.	iTunes
C.	Wikipedia
D.	Yelp!

27)	Two of the characteristics of Collaboration Information Models are granularity and ________.

A.	Modularity
B.	Scalability
C.	Reducibility
D.	Adaptability

28)	For a project using the collaborative information model, granularity was defined as:

A.	“The ability of a component to be reduced to smaller parts”
B.	“The smallest possible investment necessary to participate in a project”
C.	“Being similar in number to grains of sand on a beach.”
D.	“The atomization of a larger object into successively smaller parts that are self-similar in scale.”






SECTION 2: Short Answer Questions 31-40	(1 point each)		TOTAL: 10 MARKS

29)	Were the previous questions starting to sound familiar?


30)	Name any Disney movie.
 

31)	Name any musical artist.


32)	Placeholder
 

33)	Placeholder


34)	Placeholder
 

35)	Placeholder


36)	Placeholder
 

37)	Placeholder


38)	Placeholder
 





 
SECTION 3: Question 34		Long Answer				TOTAL: 10 MARKS
Please choose one of the following three questions, and answer it on the remainder of the page, or the overleaf.

1)	First question, something lengthy about the role of ICTs in society.

2)	This will be the second question. The Bill Leiss one that I hinted at in the last two classes.

3)	What are some “new media” technology you use in everyday life? In a day, list all the items you use.





 
SECTION 4: Questions 35-39		Bonus Questions			TOTAL: ? MARKS
35)	What ?

A.	A
B.	B
C.	C
D.	D

36)	What ?

A.	A
B.	B
C.	C
D.	D

37)	What?

A.	A
B.	B
C.	C
D.	D

38)	Placeholder. Short Answer, 1 mark.


39)	Placeholder. Short Answer, 1 mark.



